README.md, before:

# algorithm-evaluator

![Algorithm evaluator header](/docs/header.png)
### For automatically computing performance metrics for algorithms.
Powered by [Streamlit <img src="https://streamlit.io/favicon.svg" width="20">](https://streamlit.io/) and [FastAPI <img src="https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/img/favicon.png" width="20"> ](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/)

&nbsp;
<!-- 
## Features
### .csv upload
&nbsp;
![](/docs/csv_upload.png)

### Retrieve from db
&nbsp;

![](/docs/retrieve_from_db.png) -->

<!-- 
<p align="center">
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/v4k0nd/algorithm-evaluator/master/docs/app_preview.png">
</p> -->

# Install and run via docker (recommended)
```sh
docker compose up [-d] # detached mode
```

The web-app should be available under http://localhost:8501, and upload a csv.


To stop the service, just `Ctrl + C`.


To remove installed container
```sh
docker compose down [-d] # detached mode
```

# Install and run locally
```sh
git clone https://github.com/v4k0nd/algorithm-evaluator.git
cd algorithm-evaluator
pip install -r requirements.txt
# or
pip install "uvicorn[standard]" fastapi jinja2 matplotlib sklearn pandas streamlit
```
## Starting the services

To start the backend
```sh
cd script
./start_backend.sh
```
Open a new terminal


Then start the frontend
```sh
cd script
./start_frontend.sh
```

Open the URL the `start_frontend.sh` gives (probably http://localhost:8501), and upload a csv.
<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/v4k0nd/algorithm-evaluator/master/docs/streamlit_running.png">


# To reset database

The `generator.py` can create a new database from `initialiser.sql`
```sh
cd backend
python3 generator.py init
```

If you would like to populate with more randomized examples
```sh
cd backend
python3 generator.py populate
```


# Database structure
- `id`
    - :label: uuid
    - :memo: universally unique identifier
- `algorithm`
    - :label: text
    - :memo: contains name of the algorithm
- `dataset`
    - :label: text 
    - :memo: contains name of the dataset
- `roc_ys`
    - :label: list 
    - :memo: contains the y values for the ROC graph
    - example: 0.5,0.312,0.312,0.75,0.89,0.69
- `roc_ys`
    - :label: list 
    - :memo: contains the x values for the ROC graph
    - example: 0.5,0.312,0.312,0.75,0.89,0.69
- `actual_0`
    - :label: text 
    - :memo: actual 0 from the confusion matrix
- `actual_1`
    - :label: text 
    - :memo: actual 1 from the confusion matrix
- `predicted_0`
    - :label: text 
    - :memo: predicted 0 from the confusion matrix
- `predicted_1`
    - :label: text 
    - :memo: predicted 1 from the confusion matix
- `f1_score`
    - :label: text 
    - :memo: contains the y values for the ROC graph
- `datatime`
    - :label: text 
    - :memo: time of initial run of the csv in the streamlit app

Commit message:

updated Readme to include pictures and description of program structure and output

README.md, after:

# algorithm-evaluator

![Algorithm evaluator header](/docs/header.png)
### For automatically computing performance metrics for algorithms from a csv.
Powered by [Streamlit <img src="https://streamlit.io/favicon.svg" width="20">](https://streamlit.io/) and [FastAPI <img src="https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/img/favicon.png" width="20"> ](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/)



&nbsp;
<!-- 
## Features
### .csv upload
&nbsp;
![](/docs/csv_upload.png)

### Retrieve from db
&nbsp;

![](/docs/retrieve_from_db.png) -->

<!-- 
<p align="center">
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/v4k0nd/algorithm-evaluator/master/docs/app_preview.png">
</p> -->

# Install and run via docker (recommended)
```sh
docker compose up [-d] # detached mode
```

The web-app should be available under http://localhost:8501, and upload a csv.


To stop the service, just `Ctrl + C`.


To remove installed container
```sh
docker compose down [-d] # detached mode
```

# Install and run locally
```sh
git clone https://github.com/v4k0nd/algorithm-evaluator.git
cd algorithm-evaluator
pip install -r requirements.txt
# or
pip install "uvicorn[standard]" fastapi jinja2 matplotlib sklearn pandas streamlit
```
## Starting the services

To start the backend
```sh
cd script
./start_backend.sh
```
Open a new terminal


Then start the frontend
```sh
cd script
./start_frontend.sh
```

Open the URL the `start_frontend.sh` gives (probably http://localhost:8501), and upload a csv.
<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/v4k0nd/algorithm-evaluator/master/docs/streamlit_running.png">


# To reset database

The `generator.py` can create a new database from `initialiser.sql`
```sh
cd backend
python3 generator.py init
```

If you would like to populate with more randomized examples
```sh
cd backend
python3 generator.py populate
```

# Structure
The evaluation framework consists of two containers, frontend and backend. The frontend is built with Streamlit, and the backend is built with FastAPI and SQLite. The backend contained only one table, as shown in Figure 6, where the roc_ys and roc_xs represent the ground truth and the confidence respectively, and are used to recalculate the ROC curve using `scikit-learn`’s `RocCurveDisplay.from_predictions()`.

![System diagram](docs/system_diagram.png)

## Example output diagram
![ROC Graph](docs/ROC_graph.png)

# Database structure
- `id`
    - :label: uuid
    - :memo: universally unique identifier
- `algorithm`
    - :label: text
    - :memo: contains name of the algorithm
- `dataset`
    - :label: text 
    - :memo: contains name of the dataset
- `roc_ys`
    - :label: list 
    - :memo: contains the y values for the ROC graph
    - example: 0.5,0.312,0.312,0.75,0.89,0.69
- `roc_ys`
    - :label: list 
    - :memo: contains the x values for the ROC graph
    - example: 0.5,0.312,0.312,0.75,0.89,0.69
- `actual_0`
    - :label: text 
    - :memo: actual 0 from the confusion matrix
- `actual_1`
    - :label: text 
    - :memo: actual 1 from the confusion matrix
- `predicted_0`
    - :label: text 
    - :memo: predicted 0 from the confusion matrix
- `predicted_1`
    - :label: text 
    - :memo: predicted 1 from the confusion matix
- `f1_score`
    - :label: text 
    - :memo: contains the y values for the ROC graph
- `datatime`
    - :label: text 
    - :memo: time of initial run of the csv in the streamlit app
